Projektname
    Development of a secure, decentralised anonymous chat system

Betreuungsperson:
    Giovanni Serafini, Dozent für Angewandte Kryptografie

Auftraggeber:
    Thomas Gresch, Leiter e-Integration Services, local.ch

Ausgangslage
    Currently there are a lot of chat systems available, but none of those
    systems implements an anonymous, decentralised, secure, peer-to-peer
    architecture.

    Anonymity is important, if people need to hide to whom they are talking,
    which is for instance true for reporters in dangerous areas, when they
    submit messages in danger of life threats, but also applies to various
    other situations.

    A decentralised architecture helps to avoid easy disruption by eliminating
    the single point of failure. This supports the ability to continue communications
    even under attack from an enemy. This is a general requirement for reliable
    communications, but is necessary for military in war areas as well for reporters.

    A decentralised architecture is usually called peer-to-peer networking.

    Secure chat provides the ability to hide message content from eavesdroppers,
    as well as ensure message and sender authenticity.
    Without this technique an attacker could use the information for harmful
    operations or change the content of the messages. This thread is
    very dangerous in stock market situations, as well in the two situations
    described above.

    The client, Thomas Gresch from local.ch, is running Skype for internal core
    communications. As Skype is a closed source, proprietary chat system owned
    by the American company Microsoft, in case of disruptions it is technically
    and legally cumbersome to restore core communications within the company.

    For this reason the client is seeking for an alternative and supports this
    research project.


Ziele der Arbeit
    The objective of this thesis is the design and development of a secure,
    decentralised chat system, including protocol definition and prototype
    development, based on a (SWOT-)analysis of current chat implementations.
    The analysis should not only consider chat system, but related
    secure and anonymous communication systems as well.


Aufgaben
    - Detailed analysis of current chat systems
    - Comparison of current chat systems
    - Analysis of related communication protocols
    - Development of a new chat protocol
    - Development of chat prototype using the new chat protocol


Resultate
    - Report of current chat systems including strength and weaknesses
    - Short comparison table listing 
    - Report of related communication protocols including strength and weaknesses
    - Protocol definition paper
    - Implementation of a prototype for the new chat system
